What is Carina?
Founded in 2016, Carina is a technology nonprofit that provides a safe, easy-to-use, online location-based care matching service. We serve individuals and families who are in need of care, either in-home services or child care, and care professionals who are looking for good jobs. Carina is committed to building community and prioritizing people over profit. Through our partnerships with unions and social service agencies, we make sure our care providers make union wages and have access to benefits, so they can focus on their passion — caring for others.
Our vision is a care economy that strengthens our communities by respecting and supporting workers, individuals, and families. We offer a care matching platform where verified care providers can connect with individuals and families that need care.

Who's Who on Carina?
Everyone on Carina has been verified by the Washington State Department of Social and Health Services (DSHS), the SEIU 775 Training Partnership or Consumer Direct Care Network Washington (CDWA). Those registered on Carina include: Individual Providers (IPs), home care consumers, CDWA coordinators, case managers and members of the Carina team. To learn more about who you might meet on our website, click here.

How do I sign up to use Carina?
Individual Providers (IPs) and consumers receiving Medicaid or state-funded in-home care can register at any time. Carina verifies your status and you can enter the site once verification is complete.

How does Carina work?
Individual Providers (IPs) throughout Washington are welcome to register on Carina, create profiles to showcase their availability and skills and browse and respond to jobs. IPs who are Adult Child Providers or Parent Providers can also post jobs for relief and backup care (if they have the legal authority to act on behalf of their consumer) and have other IPs respond to them directly.
Consumers receiving Medicaid-funded or state-funded in-home care are welcome to post jobs, browse care provider profiles and contact care providers. Consumer Direct Care Network Washington (CDWA) coordinators can also post jobs on behalf of consumers. Once the consumer and care provider have determined they would like to work together, the consumer should contact CDWA for review and authorization. All matches need to be authorized by CDWA before payment can begin.

Is Carina a State Agency?
Carina is not a state agency. We are a non-profit organization building an online care matching platform.

Is Carina a Home Care Agency?
Carina is not a home care agency. We do not provide home care services or employ home care aides. Carina is an online platform that helps Individual Providers and consumers receiving Medicaid and state-funded in-home care to find each other.

I am a Family Provider, how does Carina help me?
Carina is a great resource to find a back-up or second care provider for your loved one. If you are a Parent Provider or an Adult Child Provider and you have legal authority to act on behalf of your consumer (legal guardian, etc.), you can post a job on Carina and receive messages from interested care providers or you can browse care provider profiles and contact them directly. Please remember that an Okay to Work from Consumer Direct Care Network Washington (CDWA) is required before work can begin.

What do I do after a consumer and I have decided to work together?
How exciting! Your consumer should reach out to Consumer Direct Care Network Washington (CDWA) for review and authorization. Do not start work for the consumer until you have received an Okay to Work from CDWA.

How is Carina different from the Consumer Direct Care Network Washington (CDWA)?
Carina is a care matching service that helps care providers, case managers and consumers connect and communicate directly via an online service. Carina is working in partnership with CDWA so those who want more assistance or prefer to work with an in-person referral coordinator can do so. Unlike CDWA, Carina does not recruit or contract new Individual Providers. If you are interested in becoming a Home Care Aide, please contact CDWA.

CDWA is the administrative employer for Individual Providers (IPs) in Washington. CDWA is responsible for assisting consumers and IPs to use Carina to find matches. CDWA staff are available across the state to assist consumers to sign up in the Carina system and help IPs get (re)contracted or hired to work.

What should I know about the transition to Consumer Direct Care Network Washington (CDWA)?
CDWA has replaced the Department of Social and Health Services (DSHS) as the new administrative employer for Individual Providers (IPs) in Washington.

Under the new employment model, CDWA is providing employment support for IPs and consumers will continue as managing employers, allowing DSHS to resume consumer case management as their primary focus.

Consumers should continue to work with their Case Manager, who will help create a Plan of Care and access needed services. Once a Consumer has decided on an IP to work with, they should complete the CDWA hiring requirements if they have not already done so. Please do not schedule an IP to work or start work until CDWA has notified you with an Okay to Work.

Consumers should refer to the CDWA Managing Employer Handbook for more details on CDWA’s Consumer Resources. All IPs need to complete the CDWA hiring requirements, and consumers need to have an Okay to Work from CDWA about the IP before care starts. For additional information, IPs should refer to the CDWA IP Employment Handbook on CDWA’s General Resources for IPs.

CDWA is assisting consumers and IPs to use Carina to find matches. CDWA staff are available across the state to assist consumers to sign up in the Carina system and help IPs get (re)contracted or hired to work.

This transition does not impact your ability to use Carina, which means your account access and experience using our website will not change. You can continue to log into your account at any time.

If you have questions or need more information on CDWA:

Website: https://www.consumerdirectwa.com

Email: InfoCDWA@ConsumerDirectCare.com

Call: 866-214-9899

Text: 877-532-8568

Where can I find more information about being an Individual Provider?
Here is a helpful guide for Individual Providers provided by Consumer Direct Care Network Washington (CDWA).

Do I have to be a certified HCA to join Carina?
No. You need to be a Washington State Individual Provider (IP) who has had an active employment relationship in the last year or newly contracted IPs who have completed orientation and safety training. You do not need to have a consumer currently to use Carina. Parent Providers, Parent DD Individual Providers, Limited Service Providers, Adult Child Providers and Standard HCAs are eligible to join.

What if my IPOne Number is too long?
In order to register, all you need to enter is the first nine (9) digits of your IPOne number.
