5 Ways to be Ready for Smoky, Hot Days
Carina Team
07/25/2023 3 minute read

(Courtesy of King County Veterans, Seniors & Human Services Levy) 


Forecasters predict a hot summer and a longer wildfire season this year, lasting into the fall. Vulnerable groups like people over age 65 or young children are more sensitive to wildfire smoke and heat. Here’s how you can protect the health of you and your loved ones when it’s hot or smoky: 


1. Talk to your healthcare provider about heat, smoke, and your health conditions. 

Medications and health conditions can make you more sensitive to heat, including medications for thyroid, heart/blood pressure, depression, and allergies. Ask your doctor if your medications make it harder for your body to cope with heat. 
If you have asthma or lung disease, make a care plan for smoky days with your health care provider. You may need to get inhalers and other needed medications before the smoke arrives. 
2. Check air quality daily during wildfire season, from May to October. 

Air quality can change quickly. Visit pscleanair.org or follow @pscleanair on Twitter to learn when air quality has reached unhealthy levels. 
Local news stations and many weather apps can also provide updates on air quality.  
3. Manage symptoms from smoke exposure. 

Watch for symptoms of wildfire smoke exposure: coughing, headache, sore throat, burning eyes, and wheezing. If children or staff experience these symptoms, they should limit time spent outdoors, avoid vigorous physical activity (like running or playing sports) and stay in an indoor space that has cleaner air.    
Dial 911 for emergency assistance if symptoms are serious like shortness of breath or chest pain.  
4. Stay indoors on smoky days. 

Stay indoors as much as possible on days that are unhealthy for sensitive groups (101-150 AQI, color-coded as orange) or worse. 
Consider using N95 masks if you must spend time outside in wildfire smoke. Children under 2 should not use a mask.  
5. Improve indoor air quality on smoky days. 

Close windows and doors, and cover windows with curtains or blinds. Note: heat is also a concern, so if it’s too hot inside the building, it’s better to open the windows for a short time to cool the indoor space than to overheat. 
Use fans or an air conditioner (AC) when it’s hot. Set your AC to recirculate. 
Consider getting air purifiers with HEPA filters. You can also make a DIY filter fan using a box fan, a MERV-13 filter, and a bungee cord or tape. Watch this how-to video or visit the Puget Sound Clean Air Agency’s DIY Air Filter website for instructions. 

5 Fun Indoor Activities You Can Have with Your Children during Wildfire Season
Jocelyn Moore
07/24/2023 2 minute read

As the season of wildfires approaches, there may be days when you need to keep your children indoors to minimize their exposure to harmful smoke and pollutants. Here is a list of engaging activities that can keep the whole family entertained while staying safe indoors: 


Indoor camping: 

Explain why you are staying inside during wildfire season by teaching children how to protect the environment. Transform your living room into an indoor campground—set up a tent, create a cozy sleeping area, and have a pretend campfire using a simple flashlight. Engage your children in camping-related activities such as storytelling, picking up trash around the “campground,” and making indoor s’more. Don’t forget to stress the importance of putting out campfires. 


Chores time, fun time 

Folding up laundry may be boring. But a competition to match the most socks can be thrilling, especially with a time limit. You can also teach your children colors by sorting through your t-shirt collections or learn numbers by counting how many pairs of pants each family member owns.  


Build with recyclables: 

Got some cardboard piled up at home? Let your imagination run wild and start building. Large boxes are great for making forts while small boxes are good for making cars. Need wheels? Try poking a stick through the middle of two lids and you’ve got yourself a rolling car.  


Sensory play: 

Set up a sensory play station by putting uncooked pasta, cereals, or ice cubes in a bin with scoops, spoons, or even toy cars. Encourage them to touch, squeeze, mold, and experiment with the materials. These activities promote exploration, creativity, and sensory development. You can also include safe-scented sensory items like peppermint oil-infused cotton balls to add an extra level of engagement! 


Indoor treasure hunt: 

Create a fun-filled adventure by setting up an indoor treasure hunt. Designate household areas as hidden spots and leave clues or maps for your children to follow. This activity keeps them engaged and encourages problem-solving, critical thinking, and teamwork. Let their imagination run wild as they embark on an exciting quest. 

 
Find childcare on Carina here.
