Find Medicaid home care consumers in Washington StateThanks to SEIU 775 members, you can search and match with Medicaid home care consumers near you.Join for FreeA partnership for better careWe partner with labor unions, government agencies and community organizations to provide better jobs and better care.What you can expectWe are dedicated to supporting care workers, families and people who need care.Always freeas a benefit to search and match on CarinaYou decidewho to connect with based on your skills and experienceVerified usersnear you only on CarinaAvailable nowwith up-to-date job postsPrivate and securetools enable users to post and connect worry-freePartneredwith SEIU 775, WA DSHS and CDWAFind Medicaid home care jobs in Washington State nowJoin for FreeHow Carina worksExploreUse our search and filter to find home care jobs near you.MessageSend messages, chat on the phone and meet in person for an interview.MatchOnce you find the right fit, request an Okay to Work from CDWA.Trusted by home care providers“I like the ease and independence Carina brings to matching caregivers and clients. It is nice to be able to narrow the search down to location, type of assistance, tasks/duties, gender and hours.”– Stephanie D.“It was so easy! I logged on Carina and got an instant hit! I now work for one person full time!”– Kristi F.Carina BlogCommon caregiver questions about being an Individual Provider (IP)Read MorePatrick’s Story and his 3 tips for caregivers!Read MoreCare professionals: Stressed out? Make time to care for yourself!Read MoreThe best ways to respond to messagesRead MoreFind Medicaid home care jobs in Washington State nowJoin for FreeAbout CarinaWhat is Carina?Founded in 2016, Carina is a technology nonprofit that provides a safe, easy-to-use, online location-based care matching service. We serve individuals and families who are in need of care, either in-home services or child care, and care professionals who are looking for good jobs. Carina is committed to building community and prioritizing people over profit. Through our partnerships with unions and social service agencies, we make sure our care providers make union wages and have access to benefits, so they can focus on their passion — caring for others.Our vision is a care economy that strengthens our communities by respecting and supporting workers, individuals, and families. We offer a care matching platform where verified care providers can connect with individuals and families that need care.Who's who on Carina?Everyone on Carina has been verified by the Washington State Department of Social and Health Services (DSHS), the SEIU 775 Training Partnership or Consumer Direct Care Network Washington (CDWA). Those registered on Carina include: Individual Providers (IPs), home care consumers, CDWA coordinators, case managers and members of the Carina team. To learn more about who you might meet on our website, click here.How do I sign up to use Carina?Individual Providers (IPs) and consumers receiving Medicaid or state-funded in-home care can register at any time. Carina verifies your status and you can enter the site once verification is complete.How does Carina work?Individual Providers (IPs) throughout Washington are welcome to register on Carina, create profiles to showcase their availability and skills and browse and respond to jobs. IPs who are Adult Child Providers or Parent Providers can also post jobs for relief and backup care (if they have the legal authority to act on behalf of their consumer) and have other IPs respond to them directly.Consumers receiving Medicaid-funded or state-funded in-home care are welcome to post jobs, browse care provider profiles and contact care providers. Consumer Direct Care Network Washington (CDWA) coordinators can also post jobs on behalf of consumers. Once the consumer and care provider have determined they would like to work together, the consumer should contact CDWA for review and authorization. All matches need to be authorized by CDWA before payment can begin.Is Carina a state agency?Carina is not a state agency. We are a non-profit organization building an online care matching platform.Is Carina a home care agency?Carina is not a home care agency. We do not provide home care services or employ home care aides. Carina is an online platform that helps Individual Providers and consumers receiving Medicaid and state-funded in-home care to find each other.Questions?I am a Family Provider, how does Carina help me?Carina is a great resource to find a back-up or second care provider for your loved one. If you are a Parent Provider or an Adult Child Provider and you have legal authority to act on behalf of your consumer (legal guardian, etc.), you can post a job on Carina and receive messages from interested care providers or you can browse care provider profiles and contact them directly. Please remember that an Okay to Work from Consumer Direct Care Network Washington (CDWA) is required before work can begin.What do I do after a consumer and I have decided to work together?How exciting! Your consumer should reach out to Consumer Direct Care Network Washington (CDWA) for review and authorization. Do not start work for the consumer until you have received an Okay to Work from CDWA.How is Carina different from the Consumer Direct Care Network Washington (CDWA)?Carina is a care matching service that helps care providers, case managers and consumers connect and communicate directly via an online service. Carina is working in partnership with CDWA so those who want more assistance or prefer to work with an in-person referral coordinator can do so. Unlike CDWA, Carina does not recruit or contract new Individual Providers. If you are interested in becoming a Home Care Aide, please contact CDWA.CDWA is the administrative employer for Individual Providers (IPs) in Washington. CDWA is responsible for assisting consumers and IPs to use Carina to find matches. CDWA staff are available across the state to assist consumers to sign up in the Carina system and help IPs get (re)contracted or hired to work.What should I know about the transition to Consumer Direct Care Network Washington (CDWA)?CDWA has replaced the Department of Social and Health Services (DSHS) as the new administrative employer for Individual Providers (IPs) in Washington.Under the new employment model, CDWA is providing employment support for IPs and consumers will continue as managing employers, allowing DSHS to resume consumer case management as their primary focus.Consumers should continue to work with their Case Manager, who will help create a Plan of Care and access needed services. Once a Consumer has decided on an IP to work with, they should complete the CDWA hiring requirements if they have not already done so. Please do not schedule an IP to work or start work until CDWA has notified you with an Okay to Work.Consumers should refer to the CDWA Managing Employer Handbook for more details on CDWA’s Consumer Resources. All IPs need to complete the CDWA hiring requirements, and consumers need to have an Okay to Work from CDWA about the IP before care starts. For additional information, IPs should refer to the CDWA IP Employment Handbook on CDWA’s General Resources for IPs.CDWA is assisting consumers and IPs to use Carina to find matches. CDWA staff are available across the state to assist consumers to sign up in the Carina system and help IPs get (re)contracted or hired to work.This transition does not impact your ability to use Carina, which means your account access and experience using our website will not change. You can continue to log into your account at any time.If you have questions or need more information on CDWA:Website: https://www.consumerdirectwa.comEmail: InfoCDWA@ConsumerDirectCare.comCall: 866-214-9899Text: 877-532-8568Where can I find more information about being an Individual Provider?Here is a helpful guide for Individual Providers provided by Consumer Direct Care Network Washington (CDWA).Do I have to be a certified HCA to join Carina?No. You need to be a Washington State Individual Provider (IP) who has had an active employment relationship in the last year or newly contracted IPs who have completed orientation and safety training. You do not need to have a consumer currently to use Carina. Parent Providers, Parent DD Individual Providers, Limited Service Providers, Adult Child Providers and Standard HCAs are eligible to join.What if my IPOne Number is too long?In order to register, all you need to enter is the first nine (9) digits of your IPOne number.Using CarinaHow do I reset my Carina password?Go to the Login page and click on Forgot Your Password? beneath the login section. You will receive an email to reset your password.Where can I send feedback about Carina's design and features?We would love your feedback! Please contact us or call us at 1-855-796-0605.I am an Individual Provider. I connected with someone who is hiring through Carina, now what?You need to follow the same process you normally would when meeting a new consumer. It is the consumer’s responsibility to screen and choose who they want to hire. Receiving an Okay to Work from Consumer Direct Care Network Washington (CDWA) is required before you can receive payment for services provided. Please work with CDWA to obtain the necessary authorization before you start work.For more information on Individual Provider employment guidelines, learn more here.I am an Individual Provider. How do I edit my profile?Go to carina.org/login. Log in using your email and password. On the welcome page, select the box labeled “Edit Profile”. Once you are on the profile page, edit various sections of your profile. Then click on “Save” at the bottom. Your new updated profile will publish immediately.Can I delete a job I posted once I found a match?Yes! Please delete your job post using the link on your dashboard page to “Edit Job Posts” and let us know in the notes who you matched with.How do you protect my privacy?Carina protects privacy through the design of the service and the architecture of the site through the following features:Within Carina, the site does not display last name, email, phone number or ZIP code to Carina users.Jobs do not allow for the display of information that would reveal the identity of a home care consumer.An anonymous option exists for consumers if they do not want to post a job.Consumers can browse profiles and contact care providers directly.Consumer and care provider contact information is not shared by Carina with other site users. Users communicate within Carina until they are ready to disclose their own information and continue their interaction offline.All user-entered data is stored and encrypted in a HIPAA compliant security layer in a cloud storage environment.I am a consumer trying to hire a care provider. If I replied to a job, or sent a message, what is next?If the care providers you selected have agreed to receive notifications from Carina, we will automatically send a notification to let them know that they have a message waiting. If they have not read the message after a while, we will also send a reminder that there is a message waiting for them. When they read the message, they can reply to you directly. Once you have decided you would like to reach out, consider exchanging phone numbers to discuss the job and care situation over the phone. Remember, you are in charge of the hiring process and a care provider must receive an Okay to Work from Consumer Direct Care Network Washington (CDWA) before starting work. If you have questions about whether your care provider has received authorization, call CDWA before starting work.How will I know if I have a message waiting for me on Carina?If you have opted in to receive notifications from Carina, you will receive an email notification every time someone writes to you on Carina. You can also sign up for text notifications and be sure to know when you have a message waiting for you on Carina.How do I delete or close my Carina account?Sorry to see you go, but if you wish to delete or close your Carina account, please contact us or call us at 1-855-796-0605 and we can close your account.
